In reinforcement learning,
the agent's objective is
to maximize future reward.
Today we will
formalize this notion.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to describe how
rewards relate to the goal
of an agent and identify
episodic tasks.
Let's define the agent's goal.
Perhaps we can just maximize
the immediate reward
as we did in bandits.
Unfortunately this
won't work in an MDP.
An action on this
time step might yield
large reward because the agent of
transition into a state
that yields low reward.
So what looked good
in the short-term,
might not be the best
in the long-term.
Consider a robot
learning to walk.
The reward could be proportional
to the forward motion.
Lurching forward would clearly
maximize immediate reward.
However, this action cause
the robot to fall over.
If the robot maximize
total forward motion instead,
it would walk quickly
but carefully.
Now, let's formally
define what we mean by
maximizing total future reward.
The return at time step t,
is simply the sum of rewards
obtained after time
step t. We denote
the return with the letter
G. The return is
a random variable because
the dynamics of the MDP
can be stochastic.
To better understand this,
I imagine a can collecting
robot starts here.
From this state, the robot always
takes the same
sequence of actions.
Sometimes it might
get a large return
and sometimes it might
get a smaller return.
This is due to the randomness in
both the individual rewards
and the state transitions.
In general, many different
trajectories from
the same state are possible.
This is why we maximize
the expected return.
For this to be well-defined,
the sum of rewards
must be finite.
Specifically, let say there
is a final time step called
capital T where the agent
environment interaction ends.
What happens when
the interaction ends?
In the simplest case,
the interaction
naturally breaks into
chunks called episodes.
Each episode begins independently
of how the previous one ended.
At termination, the agent
is reset to a start state.
Every episode has a final state
which we call the terminal state.
We call these tasks
episodic tasks.
To understand
episodic tasks better,
let's look at a concrete example.
Consider the game of chess.
A game of chess always ends with
a checkmate, draw,
or resignation.
What would an episode look
like when playing chess?
As you might've guessed,
a single game of chess would
constitute an episode.
Each game starts from
the same start state with
all the pieces reset.
Let's summarize what we learned.
We formulated the goal
of an agent in
terms of maximizing
the expected return.
We then discussed episodic tasks,
where the agent
environment interaction
breaks up into episodes.